in the next course segment we're going
to discuss why our natural language
processing has challenges that come from
text specifically we're going to look at
an example of a news story that talks
about an event that happened recently in
Brazil the story is about a candidate
for president who died in a plane crash
we want to build a system that would
understand the story and be able to
answer questions about for example what
happened and where and so on I'm going
to now highlight a few of the pieces of
the document for example the word they
the phrase is expected and then an
entire sentence and a few more phrases I
have a specific reason to highlight
those can you figure out why I
highlighted them and why each of them
presents a different sort of challenge
to the computer oh the answer will be on
the next slide the first sentence is
Brazil crowds attend funeral of late
candidate campus the reason why I chose
the sentence is because it tells us the
main event of the story so computers
have to be able to understand entire
sentences and figure out how they relate
to what happened the second sentence is
mr. compasses jet crashed in bad weather
and Santos so this is a background event
the current event is the funeral and the
background event in with the context of
which the funeral happens is that the
jet crashed and the search sentence is
also very interesting it says mr.
campuses socialist party is expected to
a point so this is not an event this is
a speculation about what may happen in
the future
president Dilma Rouseff well this
sentence gives you a property of a
person it tells you that Dilma Rousseff
is the president of Brazil and they
attended the funeral mass here the wood
they only makes sense in the context of
the previous sentences in this
particular case what's important is that
the word they again first to their
hundreds of thousands of people who
attended the funeral so this is known in
natural language processing as a poor
nominal reference to an entity in a
previous sentence there are many
different genres of text in each of them
presents different challenges
Computers let's see what are the most
common kinds of texts that computers are
likely to encounter well there include
the most obvious genres of text such as
blogs and emails press releases chats on
the internet debates and so on so on the
left-hand side here I have a small
snapshot you're not expected to read it
you can go to the website create debate
and see what that side is all about I'm
just going to describe it here really
quickly anybody can go to this website
and post a controversial topic for
example he's Manchester United the best
football team ever or in this particular
example do you think that schools should
provide more tests for developmentally
challenged people and you can decide
whether you're on the yes side or the no
side and then everybody can participate
in this discussion and enter arguments
on both sides so this kind of text
presents interesting challenges because
we want to understand what each person's
opinion is whether they're on the yes
side or the north side the second
example here is from Wikipedia it
includes an entry about a specific
politician Tony Blair and it can be used
to understand the basic events and facts
about his biography now let's look at
the more challenging piece of text this
is a scientific paper its title itself
already tells you how difficult this
topic can be induction of influenza
specifically cause of immunity by an
attenuated recombinant sendai virus I've
extracted some of the text from this
sentence from this document sorry and I
want to show you some of the specific
challenges to computers so the first
thing is this phrase here sentai virus
this is a named entity it's specifically
a virus and it has to be recognized by
the system as such there are other
examples of named entities for example
human parainfluenza virus type 1 or HP
IV 1 then sendai virus is mentioned a
few more times luciferase green
fluorescent protein or GFP those are all
examples of named entities
there are also examples of speculation
for example reported and suggesting
which are in purple we have instances of
species for example the word human mice
ferrets we have cell types for example
nasal epithelial cells we have also
facts and we have references the things
in the square brackets are references to
other papers so a computer would need to
understand the purpose of each of those
words and phrases and references in
order to understand the content of the
document so another interesting type of
documents that can be challenging to
computers are medical records medical
records have two interesting properties
first of all they are often the result
of transcriptions and they don't contain
grammatical sentences and the second
polar with medical records is that when
they use for research purposes they have
to be anonymized so for example in this
medical record here the name of the
person has been changed to something
that is not personally identifiable
information a more interesting challenge
comes from literary texts or fiction
texts those can be very difficult for
computers to process I'm going to show
you some examples from Project Gutenberg
which is an online digital library that
contains old books just some examples
from classic books like Ulysses you can
see that there are some proper names
that are difficult to understand if you
don't know the context of story there's
some rare words such as Waggoner here
and so on that example is from Jane Eyre
here you have again sure gratitude with
short sentences but then we also have
sentences in parentheses which indicate
some additional information and another
example from The Wizard of Oz which is a
little bit longer but luckily for a
computer program it has relatively short
sentences that are easy to understand
now on the other end of the spectrum we
have some really long literary sentences
for example try to parse this sentence
and this is just one Center that
occupies the entire screen
it talks about again obscure names of
people it uses some words that are not
even words in the English language can
you guess where this text is fun well on
the previous slide I showed you an
excerpt of gravity's rainbow this is a
book that is known for its use of very
keen words and complicated sentences and
also a fairly complicated plot structure
another such work that you may have
heard about is Finnegan's Wake by James
Joyce which is probably one of the most
difficult books to read and translating
or understanding poetry can be even more
difficult because in addition to the
constraints that I'm posed by language
you also have constraints that I imposed
by the metric structure I'm and the
structure of the individual lines so the
next item we're going to talk about some
funny sentences that present specific
challenges to natural language
processing systems